RTX voice has gotten a lot of coverage
in a very short period of time largely
thanks to our friend Barney Cleese who
did a great job of showing how it's
supposed to work at the basics of it and
inspired us to dive deeper
RTX voice is supposed to help with
background noise it was trained on voice
data with background noise and is
eventually intended to target reduction
of background noise for in-game voice
chat or for streaming given the current
situation and Vidya really accelerated
the launch of this product it's in beta
and they wanted it to help out with
things like conference calls
so today's feature will test the
performance impact of r-tx voice in
games with r-tx devices and with gtx
devices because by the way you can hack
it to work on a GTX device before that
this video is brought to you by the new
be quiet straight power 11 platinum
power supply series available from 550
watts to 1200 watts the new straight
power 11 is Platinum certified operating
more efficiently than before reducing
heat and lowering noise levels as a
result the be quiet Street power 11
platinum is up to 94.1 percent efficient
and meets the new low power standards of
just 0.16 watts when in standby learn
more about this high end noise focused
power supply at the link in the
description below quick breakdown of
today's content then first we're going
to start with setting expectations of
what this thing is and how critically
should we really look at it right now
given its current status as early beta
we spoke with Nvidia about their r-tx
voice solution as well and have some
information from them we're going to be
next looking at benchmarks on our TX and
on GTX video cards in game while also
using the RT XP voice feature versus not
using it so a be testing pretty simple
stuff and then further we'll be looking
at the voice quality impact if there's a
change from using an RT X device to a
GTX device and finally we'll give you
some information on how to do the hacks
to get it working on GTX setting
expectations then is our first step so
we spoke with Nvidia about this and and
video was very open with us and
emphasized very strongly that this is a
super early beta the team that's behind
it has been working on this for a while
now but they weren't really ready for
launch
and this was
really intended to go out now but
because of the current situation and
unfortunately I'm going to have to you
can figure it out what I'm talking out
there thanks to YouTube but the current
situation has inspired an outburst of
conference calls and working from home
and so our text voice was pulled forward
ahead of all the other projects in the
pipeline to try and meet the current
high demand for better quality audio
especially in the mainstream audience
people who have maybe never played or
streamed games before really on a PC but
are doing some form of conference calls
where they could use this GTX so before
the outrage machine really gets going
the GTX future of our TX voice
compatibility is currently uncertain we
spoke with Nvidia about the performance
results that we saw and NVIDIA hasn't
really even had much time to do internal
performance testing this is a relatively
small team and the scope of things and
it also has some logistical challenges
with working from home right now the GTX
does work the performance impacts
spoiler alert is bigger and we'll talk
about why we think that is later and the
team isn't certain if they're going to
enable it on GTX later but they also
don't want to Nvidia doesn't want to
worse and perform significantly in
gaming with a feature that is initially
targeted for gaming use so if it's not
going to perform well then they probably
won't turn it on we'll see if the hack
remains in there though eventually this
will become a very streamer or content
creator targeted piece of software and
the end goal is to optimize it more
heavily and get it running more on the
tensor Hardware tensor cores on our T
cores in the device this runs on qu DNN
which is an Nvidia solution and I think
probably before giving any more
background information on this let's get
into the benchmarks and then we'll talk
more about what it all means and setting
the stage of expectations for RTX voice
in the future well start with a
benchmark of our TX voice running on our
TX cards then we'll show how it does on
the GTX 1080 FTW this testing uses our
standard test methodology for GPUs
except for our TX voice when our TX
voice is installed and enabled we're
using a math drop PC 37 X headset with a
thousand rpm industrial knock to a
server fan pointed towards the wearer
from about half a meter away the intent
of this is to create a less reasonable
representation of background noise to
try and stress the software more if it
even works that way we don't really know
yet
we then count throughout the benchmark
with occasional pauses so one two three
four and so forth
to keep some regular noise that is
repeatable and testing we attempt to
give our TX voice something to do with
this but do break at every 10 so we
pause at 10 for a couple seconds we
pause at 20 for a couple seconds and
it's all to just try and create some
stress workload that is repeatable this
is with Windows voice recorder running
which we found to have the lowest
interference with benchmark results and
which works with r-tx voice we had
trouble getting the speaker setting and
r-tx voice to work so these benchmarks
are only for RTX voice running with the
microphone the impact should be bigger
with speaker processing for a discord
call which we did try by the way but we
were unable to get it working in time
for the benchmarks the first test is
with shadow of the Tomb Raider at 4k
with all our TX features disabled this
is strictly rasterized game content so
the RT cores and tensor cores are not
taxed by the game the r-tx 20/80 super
ran at 62 FPS average base line with our
settings 54 FPS 1% lows and 53 FPS 0.1%
lows frame time consistency is extremely
good in this title for the 2080 super
and that shows here enabling our TX
voice dropped us 256 FPS average which
is a reduction of 9.3 percent on the RT
x video card this would imply to us
anyway that there's overhead somewhere
outside of the RT course since they are
unutilized by the game the one percent
and point one percent low reduction is
about 10.5% seeing performance hit in a
non RT benchmark again indicates to us
that something else on the GPU pipeline
is loaded it seems heavy on copies right
now looking at the resource monitoring
and Nvidia told us that it's not yet at
the optimization stage but the company
will be working on it as the application
matures it's very clear that our TX
voice isn't only running on our TX
Hardware right now otherwise we should
see nearly zero performance hit two
games that leave the RT ax Hardware idle
switching to the RT X 26 TKO at 1440p in
the same game we measured a 72 fps
at baseline with frame times again
highly consistent on the nvidia card the
drop was about eleven point seven
percent from baseline to RTX voice
enabled with a 14% hit to low frame rate
performance we were next testing the GTX
1080 to reiterate an earlier point this
isn't supposed to work on GTX and it is
a hack so you get what you get there's
no Nvidia hasn't validated this
internally the results are interesting
the GTX 1080 falls from 71 point 4 FPS
average at 1440p to 59 point 6 FPS
average which is a sixteen point six
percent performance hit that's more than
what we saw in either of the other two
RT x 20 series benchmarks the one
percent on point one percent lows were
additionally hit and dropped 17 to 18
percent total off of their baseline our
initial suspicion was that our TX voice
it might be actually leveraging our T or
tensor hardware to some extent which
would explain the difference in the
impact despite the somewhat obviously
non RT loading in the pipeline when we
spoke with Nvidia to try and better
understand why the performance Delta was
higher on the GTX card the company noted
that it hasn't really gotten into the
performance testing stages yet and the
product manager with whom we spoke
didn't have any personal experience
running performance tests against the
GTX cards we have more benchmarks in a
second but a quick note first and video
really is in an early beta stage right
now and the company is trying to get it
working first so just to kind of preempt
the usual and video conspiracy theories
will quote Gordon of PC world
alright internet put the can of
Budweiser down relax this is not Nvidia
intentionally hindering GTX performance
that's not what's happening here just to
really make that clear it's not like
Nvidia is trying to torpedo GTX
performance on its software which isn't
even ready for performance testing yet
they don't even want the hit to be ten
percent with our TX cards because that's
obviously a massive hit for gaming
especially if you're already in dealing
with resource contention with streaming
software with envy Inc or something else
or whatever else is going on in the
background so Nvidia doesn't even want
to be at the ten percent number that
they're at now with our TX hardware and
the GTX hit it's not like this is an
intentional self-sabotage now
and video might disable it for GTX in
the future even though it may in the
future improve and performance we have
no idea if the performance improvement
is somewhat linear on both devices let's
say they bring the RDX 20 series cards
down to 2 to 3 percent performance hits
something like that and they can cram
all that processing in there a couple
millisecond window while the games
dealing with frames
maybe the GTX card comes down to
something like 5 to 9 percent somewhere
in there if that's the case we'd like to
see Nvidia offer GTX for RTX voice but
we'll see we'll see what they do either
way
anybody who tells you in the comments
that this is an intentional hindrance
has no idea what they're talking about
because if you look at the software it's
incredibly simple right in-house so it's
not advanced enough to really do that
yet our t-rex GPUs had architectural
improvements outside of our tea cores
too by the way so that's probably at
play here and it may have to do with the
bandwidth on the bandwidth difference
between the two series of cards we
tested it could also have to do with the
way that our TX devices handled copies
specifically this is a very copy heavy
workload and if they're advantaged there
then that would explain some of it the
next test is minecraft RT X we recently
published a benchmark video on this game
and it's especially useful here like we
said in the benchmark minecraft slow
native graphics quality meant that a lot
of the work could be pushed to our T
cores without as much burden on things
like the geometry pipeline for this one
at 4k and with our TX force off the
20/80 super did about 37 FPS average at
4k and that was with our tested settings
of 8 chunks and dl SS on the drop was
234 0.5 FPS with our TX voice on that's
not a lot in an absolute sense since no
one's really going to notice that but it
is a percentage difference about 6.7%
this will scale up to 1080p or 1440p
mind you so it should be fairly similar
across the board you might still have a
7% hit at 1440 the performance impact is
lower than in non r-tx games so we
assume that our hypothesis is
potentially being somewhat proven with
low disproportionately shifted to our T
Hardware on the GPU we're now choking
the pipeline outside of usual areas in
choke in a game like geometry our TX
utilization
the game should have resulted in more
resource contention if r-tx voice were
heavily leveraging r-tx hardware and so
the FPS impact we think should have been
higher if that were the case the results
we got tells us that it may be relying
more on the traditional cuda cores
rather than the RT course or a tensor
course the RT x 2080 supras voice
quality was about the same as in other
games so we didn't lose any performance
in the application on the voice quality
either we next tested at minecraft with
the RT x 20 60 k out benchmarked at
1080p instead this card already
struggled so the results aren't very
surprising the performance hit is about
5% here again it's all about relative
numbers not just raw fps 2 FPS doesn't
mean a world of difference and is
frankly sort of irrelevant but we're
more using this as a tool to try and
figure out where the performance loss is
happening in the pipeline the RT x 2060
kayo is much more stressed on its RT
hardware than the 2080 super wise where
it's dealing with a lot of pixels as
well as this is at 4k so we again think
that this is indicating towards maybe
more CUDA utilization than not finally
our last test is time spot for GT 1 & 2
which is a synthetic workload that
doesn't use our T Hardware our score 4
times pi extreme was 53 52 points for
RTX voice off with the 2082 / or 48 22
points with our TX boys on the
difference is about nine point nine
percent not shown here GT one is more of
a tessellation workload while GT 2 is
more of a memory workload and in both
instances we're at about nine point nine
percent performance reduction times by a
non extreme with the 2060 kayo applauded
about an eleven point five percent
performance hit 74 fifteen points down
to 65 64 GT one fell eleven point four
percent from about forty eight to forty
two point five and gt2 fell about 11.5%
from forty two point eight to thirty
seven point nine in time spy that's a
big FPS hit the benchmark cares about
every fraction of a frame the last test
is for the GT x 1080 FTW won and times
by where we saw a 17 point seven percent
reduction in score or 17.1% in GT won
the tessellation load and 18.2% in gt2
the more memory intensive load this
follows the gaming results pretty well
and is about what we saw in the previous
tests
another reason that Nvidia might not
want the 1080 supported or the GTX 3
supported for RTX voice would be if the
sound quality is worse where it becomes
actually just a hindrance to usage
rather than a benefit so we compared the
twenty eighty super to a 1080 in the
same test configuration we had an ox
with 3000 rpm fan about half a meter
away so obnoxiously close at this point
this is no longer realistic this is not
representative of how any one sets the
computer up it was strictly a torture
test for RTX voice so Knox about 3000
rpm server fans about here and blowing
more or less straight into the headset
microphone and it's if it survives that
then it'll survive a lot of things so
that was the test set up the 1080 had
severe issues with dropping out and sort
of robotic sounding audio where you can
hear the artifacting in it it's the same
thing anyone who's worked with any kind
of noise suppression and Adobe Premiere
you're very likely familiar with this as
well and we'll play clip in a second the
twenty eighty super seems to do better
but it was still flawed it certainly
wasn't perfect and also we should note
that we're not really positive how
accurate run to run
RTX voice is we did do a couple of
different tests and it seems consistent
but we can't with certainty state if a
gtx card is always going to be worse
quality than an RT x card however
observational e with fairly controlled
as far as the world of audio goes
testing goes it was definitely worse on
the gtx card so this was certainly not
as amazing as initial coverage had us
believing but it's still impressive
overall just the gtx card was really bad
so anyway here's a clip of the gtx 1080
with our TX voice disabled this will
give you an understanding of the room
audio and then we'll play it unable then
point out the mic one two three four
five six seven eight nine ten
and here's a clip of the GT X 1080 with
r-tx voice-enabled
while running times by in the background
so it's effectively gaming while also
running RT x voice it's one of the most
intensive possible loads that we could
generate for it
GT X 1080 testing times for extreme with
the ax voice on 1 2 3 4 5 6
here's the RIT X 20 80 super end time
spy with r-tx voice enabled Archie X 20
80 super test 2 was on 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 and finally a reminder of what our TX
voice sounds like when it's off with
just the room noise and this time with
20 80 super although it's irrelevant at
this point because it's not doing
anything on a software level it's just
how the noise sounds to the mic let's
play that one 1 2 3 4 5 6
here's a quick clip of the r-tx 20 60 KO
running with our TX voice enabled while
playing a game 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and here's
a final recording of our TX voice
enabled while just at desktop with a bit
of a cleaner audio track that we
recorded 20 super at the desktop 1 2 3
so as a reminder this is all very new
software and video isn't able to really
help us remotely with any kind of
insight to testing yet because they
haven't done much of that themselves yet
this was pulled way ahead in the
pipeline in a more normal use case so
with fairly annoying radiator and GPU
fans blowing but not into the microphone
so testbench positioned about 1 meter
away or let a little bit less and with a
neck 62 with fans at full speed and with
an RT X 2080 super with fans
intentionally set to full speed on the
founders edition card you end up with
probably at that distance something
around 45 DBA or so and and in that
instance without the wind deploying
straight into the headset microphone
like the knock who a fan was doing it
works pretty well and overall the sound
quality is good ish now you still get
that robotic
the aberrations and weird noises that
happen in the background but it is
certainly better than some of the tests
we just showed with the nakta fan
blowing into the mic so this technology
it's it's good but right now this is not
something we would use for streaming its
its beta it should be probably called
alpha and there's a performance hit that
is significant in gaming applications
right now that should change we're told
and there's also kind of questionable
gains and audio quality sometimes where
you almost rather have the more natural
sounding voice rather than the weird
clipping that you get otherwise all that
said this is still overall shaping up to
be impressive technology it has a little
bit to go but it's going the right
direction if you want to set this up on
GTX here's what you do it's pretty
simple so we found these steps in an
online form then we modified them for
more clarity you download and run the
r-tx installer
first step to navigate to C Drive temp
and VRTX voice we'll put this on the
screen env a FX is the final folder and
then you copy RTX of voice dot n VI as a
backup keep that and open up our TX
voice nvi with notepad plus plus or
something
delete attacks that will show on the
screen but it is in the constraints
section and that text says constraints
property name feature our TX voice and
so forth so you delete that whole block
make sure the rest of the formatting and
space and is maintained the same on the
sections above and below it and after
that go back up a level to n VRTX voice
and the temp folder that's in and run
septa Exe as admin if that doesn't work
navigate up a level and grant folder
permissions to your user account to that
folder or if you want to be lazy about
it you can grant all permissions to it
and an attempt again and maybe reset
your permissions after that that will
allow it to run and should work well I
mean should should work as well as it'll
be allowed to work the GTX entity
doesn't always sound garbage but it
sounds garbage when you point a fan at
it more so than the twenty eighty super
does and we don't have an explanation
for why we don't know if that's because
the RT and the tensor cores or if it's
weaker hardware or just the software
wasn't doesn't have any parameters in it
for Pascal no idea but it didn't sound
the same and it was under roughly the
same test conditions so someone's going
on and it might be because it's not
supposed to work a couple notes we found
a few bugs the r-tx voice outside of the
application itself one of them was
repeat initialization errors that were
really frustrating where it would not
detect our audio devices we finally
figured it out and it's simple when you
go to install r-tx voice make sure that
your audio device is mic and headphone
are both plugged in and on or active
otherwise at least in our case it bugged
out and once you connect to them later
it didn't understand what they were so
they have to be in there when its
installed we also notice that on boot it
indicates that it's failing to
initialize again even if we don't launch
it so it starts automatically which you
go kill and that was config if you want
but starts automatically and then fails
to initialize and also if you want to
exit the application you have to kill it
in task manager killing it in the system
trade doesn't actually kill it double
final notes here we've seen some
confusion about what how this works so
there's a lot of talk about AI and deep
learning and all this all the buzzwords
they're actually used but the thing that
people commonly misunderstand is this is
not live while you're using it sending
your data back to the server to be
analyzed and then sending it back to you
to be played back so you you will not be
sending your information to Nvidia
unless you opt into it on their feedback
form on the website they're not
listening to your calls as far as we
understand obviously r-tx voice and
vidya told us does not store or transmit
any of the data that it encounters back
to a server it doesn't do any any remote
data processing it's all done locally
and done on the card that you have
installed and all of the deep learning
testing that this marketing talks about
in the pages they quickly threw together
that was done on site before the
software shipped so it's not being done
live with your data going back to the
server just wanted to clear that up
if you wanted to contribute to Nvidia's
development of r-tx voice they do have a
feedback form open it is not only opt-in
but you have to go find it on the
internet so as far as we're concerned
that's fine because it's it's all
voluntary by the user but if you want to
feed data into it go for it they have a
process where they have both a machine
oversight and an engineering oversight
because to quote the rap garbage data it
produces garbage results so they need to
make sure that the data that comes in is
actually useful to them and not just you
holding a leaf blower against the
microphone and then playing never gonna
give you up in the background I'm sure
they'll get a lot of those submissions
now though and that more or less recaps
it so it's overall okay if you have a
more reasonable amount of background
noise like your computer and it's not a
blower fan pointed at the mic it seems
like a fine thing to use you will have a
performance hit and games we probably
wouldn't recommend this for streams
where it's maybe you're a source of
income for you because it's beta
software and it's buggy but for
conference calls if you have people
complaining about audio quality well
then it seems like it's an okay thing to
try out in the least the concern we
would always have with this type of
software is that any kind of noise
suppression you deal with potentially
having parts of your speech cut out
without you knowing it the recipient
will know because they don't understand
what you're saying
but that's always the concern we
encountered a little bit of that but it
was under those extreme test conditions
and not under the reasonable ones with
just a bunch of computers in the room
making noise indirectly hear the mic so
that's it for this thanks for watching
fun stuff to test we'll look at this
some more as it develops it's certainly
interesting and it seems like there are
real applications for this but we're
gonna give it some time to develop some
more subscribe for more go to store
documents next it's not net or
patreon.com slash gamers Nexus tops out
directly and we'll see you all next time
[Music]